greetings one and all thanks for coming
back for another healthy
and nutritious china history podcast
episode
laszlo montgomery here bringing you part
three in this
latest chp series that looks at the
history of the thai
chinese and as an extra added bonus at
no charge of course
you're also getting a smattering of thai
history as well
i wasn't taught in my high school we
left off last time with burmese king
shinjinshin's brutal and destructive
conquest of ayutia
this kingdom that lasted 416 years
was smashed by a vastly superior burmese
army
led by one of those occasional warrior
kings who came down hard
on the kingdom of vaiutia at a time when
the place was
well it was right for taking down and
then the burmese king's army destroyed
the city to such an extent
that it was unlivable and as promised
we're going to look at a popular
18th century figure from thai history
who
stepped up and came to the nation's
defense at
what was certainly one of the darkest
hours in
all of thai history up to that time and
this was toxin the great
he was born in 1734. two years later
than his excellency
george washington over in the american
colonies
he was a luck chin remember that term
from part one
mixed thai chinese his mother was a
native thai
and his father well he was surnamed jung
and he came from huafu village changhai
city
in shantou right on the banks of the han
river
right near where it flows into shantou
harbor
a port from once countless
tens of thousands of native djochu's
sons
and later daughters embarked on their
own overseas adventures
many diochus referred to this han jiang
as the mother river
toxin's chinese name was jung jal his
early years are the stuff of legends
not a whole lot to hang on to his father
died young and he was raised by his
mother
as the story goes he grew up became a
merchant trader
a caravan master actually and in this
line of work
one gets a lot of practical experience
fighting bandits and marauding gangs who
meant great harm one of the parts of
siam he found himself often was in tak
a province halfway between bangkok and
chiang mai
and zhangjiao well his thai name was sin
and whilst residing in tuck he became
quite close to the governor who became
his patron
and it was in the fateful year of 1760
that sin assumed the leadership of tak
and he took on the name of toxin
the years of his early rise are filled
with all kinds of stories
he was a born leader and knew how to
lead men into battle
and as we all know from part two 1760
the burmese king
shinjunshin invaded siam
it'll take seven years but he eventually
does succeed in his objective
of destroying ayutia and between 1765
and 1767 when the fate
of the whole kingdom of ayutiya hung in
the balance
toxin assembled a fighting force it led
these troops south in the direction of
the capital
to aid in its defense but as i said last
episode
mid 18th century burma
was too great a force between the
overwhelming offense of
xinjing's army and the share
incompetence in the ayutian leadership
at that time
toxin abandoned what he knew was a lost
cause for the sake of living to
fight another day and when king
shinjunshin's troops breached the city
walls and began to tear this
once great city limb from limb toxin was
leading his follower south
he needed a safe place where he could
regroup build up an army to return
and fight the burmese after toxin and
his troops busted out of the besieged
city
seeking a safe place of refuge toxin
knew
what better place was there than amongst
his own people that the ochoes
in toxins time that the ochoes were
mostly clustered in the cities towns and
villages between pattaya
and trot and also near the southern
border of the kingdom near malaysia
chantaburi raiong and trot these were
dyocho strongholds the hawkyan at that
time
had mostly been clustered in the north
near the destroyed capital of hyutia
stories and legends abound recounting
toxins bravery as he
fought his way south defeating the
burmese at every turn
he made it safety and into the embrace
of the dyocho community
there toxin rebuilt his army
gone were the days when the military was
dominated by the noble class who served
as the officers
now it was strictly meritocracy and new
men were given chances to
rise to the fore and prove themselves if
they demonstrated the sufficient amount
of loyalty and
bravery they could do well in toxin's
world
after toxin emerged victorious in the
end
he will apply this thinking to the
government as well
he was a very strict disciplinarian in
the legalist sense
many came to resent him for his
perceived harshness
but when he whipped the army into
tip-top shape and they drew
first blood against the burmese army at
twinbury
no one couldn't deny toxin knew what he
was doing
mind you this was not the same burmese
army of april
1767. they were a little worn out by now
if you recall from past chp episodes
the chen long emperor launched four
invasions of burma
in 1765 1766
68 and for the last time in 1769
these were part of his so-called ten
great campaigns the churchian
the burmese part of these 10 great
campaigns ended up being a bloody
disaster for the qing army
one interesting thing of note however
was that the borders that the two sides
eventually agreed to
are the borders that exist to this day
so the burmese had a lot of resources
tied up and this made things a little
easier for toxin as
he fought his way north to take back
what the burmese had taken
it only took seven months after the fall
of ayutia
for toxin to take it all back well
mostly all that is he's gonna end up
tamping down fires for the next several
years and it
took a little time to consolidate his
power
the city of ayutia as i said last time
destroyed beyond repair so toxin
had to look for a new capital for his
kingdom and he went to tunburi
and set it up there today twinbury is a
district of bangkok
and 252 years later bangkok is still
the capital of thailand february 1768
toxin was declared king he was the king
of siam but at the same time he had deep
chinese roots and in the 18th century
the ethnic chinese of siam
had grown extremely powerful and very
well connected throughout the entirety
of
southeast asia and into the individual
villages
stretching from southern fujian
to eastern guangdong time and again
toxin would depend on the ethnic chinese
to watch his back and work with him to
rebuild the kingdom
let me introduce one such ethnic chinese
whose contribution was most noteworthy
there was a hokkien guy named that's how
it's pronounced in mandarin he was from
zhangcho
which means he was hokkien so they had
their own way to pronounce
those two characters this wu surname the
ko tien wu was pronounced ha in hokkien
but don't quote me on that tone
in 1750 woo rang
sailed from zhengzhou in southern fujian
to songkla
songkla is in the south of thailand
almost
at the malaysian border just north of
pattani
this is where linda chen resided after
hanging up his pirate sword if you
remember
in 1769 when toxin was seeking friends
who could support him
woo rang became a very rich and
influential
somebody down in those parts thanks to
his patronage of
king baromocot he was able to get
everybody in those parts to band
together
and side with toxin and later on toxin
is going to show his appreciation by
well among other honors and riches
giving rung the exclusive concession for
all trading of bird's nest
you all know what this is bird's nest
soup yen war
that rich and nutritious solidified
saliva from certain swiftlets
quite profitable and siam was a favorite
place for these birds
to build their nests in 1775 toxin made
wurang
governor of songkla in time sungla
became
like a municipality that reported
directly to the capitol in tuenbury
rather than to the province thanks to
wurang's loyalty at a very critical time
and his importance to toxin in the
founding of the tunburi kingdom
the wu clan later took on the surname
na songkla and became one of the most
powerful families in thailand
and eight generations of wu clan members
ruled sonclaw for 126 years till
1901. their political longevity
like all these so-called hokkien rajas
was due to their loyalty to the monarchy
intermarrying with their
princes and princesses and cultivating
royal favor and
weaving webs of relationships with
bangkok elites
and south of thailand were all the malay
states and for a very long time the
borders of thailand
and malaysia shifted north and south
depending on the political and power
dynamic
in that part of the country in the 18th
century
it wasn't the most peaceful border and
for toxin
to have a loyal and dependable force
down there with wu rung
and his hakken followers allowed him to
sleep better at night
it even after toxin is gone the new king
will look at the situation down there
and conclude
if it ain't broke don't fix it we'll
come back to the woo
family or hall family as they were
better known as
who later on took on the na soncla
surname for now
let's return to tuxen the great it took
till about 1770 for toxin to put the
last of his rivals away
his greatest enemy still his neighbor to
the west
burma they were trying like crazy to
snuff out toxins kingdom before this
new siamese polity was able to plant any
roots
but they were not successful and toxin
was able to take back
most all the lands of the former ayutia
kingdom
chiang mai was still in burmese hands
toxin was unable to seize that part
not yet anyway and when it came time to
organize his government
toxin had a broad range of loyal people
who had stuck with him since the 1760s
and he put all of them in positions of
power
1774 after burma's warrior king
xinjinshin was able to fight the
chienlong armies to a draw
with both sides declaring victory and
signing a truce
well this freed up a big chunk of the
burmese military who were now
free to go attack toxins new twinbury
kingdom
but just when he was commencing the
attack ammon
uprising in burma flared out of control
and this took precedence over the
uh situation in siam only then
with king xinjing distracted with
domestic troubles
in 1774 1775 did toxin find the time
right to go in and take chiang mai and
incorporate that
former lana kingdom into the twinbury
kingdom
again twinbury because that was where
toxin
set up his capital and today this is a
district of bangkok
just south of the grand palace on the
other side of the
chao praya river and then another stroke
of good fortune for toxin
the health of the burmese king
shinjunshin
started to fail and after two awful
years of suffering and
a failed attempt to take back siam he
passed on june 10th
1776 and that was it for the burmese
campaigns in siam
and chiang mai has been part of the
kingdom of thailand ever since
toxin owed a great deal of his success
to the ethnic chinese in general and for
the solid
support he received from the siamese
dyocho community
the economy had been in a doldrum since
the 1760s and
though he was doing many different tasks
at the same time he knew
restoring the economy was paramount and
for this reason too
having the diochus behind him did
wonders and
digging themselves out of the mess they
were in and toxin turned to china
to the chienlong emperor to try and
crank up the tribute trade that had
ended once ayutia fell in 1767.
in order to get this going he needed the
chen long emperor's stamp of approval
to acknowledge his legitimacy but some
rival of toxin had gotten to the ching
court first and
spread all kinds of negative rumors
about toxin and
even told the emperor toxin was just
some usurper
not a good word in chinese history so
toxin
struck out with china and we'd have to
try again another day to get the chen
long emperor to
smile benevolently on his twinbury
kingdom
and he wasn't having much luck with his
neighbors either in cambodia laos and
vietnam
they too didn't recognize him and
rebuffed his efforts to
establish relations without any hope of
reviving tribute trade
there was always private trade once
again toxin turned to the deochews on
the east coast of siam
and their merchant network that was
unrivaled anywhere in the kingdom
and he laid out a long buffet table
of incentives and opportunities for them
this included in trusting them with the
royal trade monopoly
they got whatever they needed from toxin
and in return they delivered
on jump starting the economy restoring
commerce to normalcy
and getting the the heart pumping again
in domestic and
south seas trade he didn't have any
tribute trading privileges but
plenty of siamese products made its way
to china in these vessels called junks
royal support in trade and commerce
yielded quick results toxin even bit out
the rights to scavenge around the
destroyed city of ayutia to mine for
gold and
other precious treasures amidst the
rubble there
and the deochus were trusted by toxin to
act in the capacity of envoys to china
to plead his case in their diplomatic
endeavors there was finally
an opening for toxin when his soldiers
captured a group of chinese prisoners
held by the burmese he gathered these
captured
chinese soldiers and officials and
returned them safely to china
postage prepaid and when word got to the
chen long emperor about
what a solid toxin had done for china he
began to soften his stance on
establishing diplomatic relations in
toxin followed this up with a tribute
mission that went overboard in the gifts
and
tribute to chienlong and this pretty
much did the trick and everything warmed
up between
toxins twinbury kingdom and the great
qing empire but just as toxin's star was
burning at its brightest he was
overthrown in a palace coup
he had never really made the transition
from military man to political ruler
he still used strict measures to punish
those who failed him and
had made decisions at his court that
garnered him a lot of enemies
it ended up being his own son-in-law
tong doing his most
trusted military general who turned on
him and carried out the coup
and the day after he overthrew toxin and
declared an end to the twinbury kingdom
he declared the commencement of the
chakri dynasty
this was on april 7 1782
toxin the great was duly executed
and that was that tong had then declared
himself
rama the first he was the founding
monarch
of the same dynasty presently reigning
in the kingdom of thailand
the chakri dynasty the current king is
his majesty watcher along corn
also known as king rama the tenth and
what followed toxin's demise
was one heck of a bloody purge that saw
almost but not quite
every last loyalist and follower of
toxin
banished or executed the government was
completely cleaned out
of all toxin people which as we know no
matter which country we come from
that's a pretty common political rite of
passage although these
purges are not always bloody and though
we'll get to this in a second
although rama the first had to deal with
a lot of wars and battles
the kingdom of siam was getting ready
for a
nice long stretch of
relative peace and major prosperity
toxin didn't have enough time to really
rebuild the capital
he had located it to twinbury but it
still needed some work
the twinbury chinatown in the best part
of bangkok
was relocated to a much less
favorable location in sampang and there
on the banks of the chao praia river
where the former chinatown once stood
rama the first built the grand palace
wasn't what you'd call a fair trade but
the chinese residents of bangkok
once again rolled with the punches and
like always
played the long game so this is where
the bangkok period of thai history
begins
right here with the founding of the
chakri dynasty
and the capital in bangkok most of the
ethnic chinese living in thailand today
come out of this period so peace had
finally come to siam
by 1786 the last of the warring with
burma came to an end
war was always good for the economy but
not as good as peace was
what began under king rama the first was
an explosion of trade
the likes of which had never been seen
before
and one thing about this king he was a
real
expert when it came to trade maximizing
profits the
annual trading schedules and when was
the perfect time of the season to sail
he knew his stuff as far as maximizing
the profitability of the royal trade
monopoly
he knew how to masterfully handle this
too
the hottest selling most profitable
commodities were all
under the umbrella of the royal trade
monopoly if you dealt in these products
you had to sell them to the king and he
would go on and sell them to the chinese
or other buyers it was a license to
print money
and king rama the first surrounded
himself with the best people
he had a very top-rated chinese
fracklong
named chinkun who was the patriarch of a
very distinguished siamese family
he had made a name for himself as one of
toxin's military commanders but had
demonstrated immediate loyalty to rama
the first
as king taisa's chinese frock long
became a
almost a brother to him so it was with
rama the first's own chinese fracklong
and chin kun also went on to serve the
next king rama ii
as well so in this post-ayutia period in
thai history
it was all about bouncing back from the
disaster of 1767
and under the first three chakri kings
rama the first second and third
1782-1851
the kingdom prospered like never before
in its history
and the chakri dynasty didn't do too bad
either
and along with this massive flood of
wealth into the kingdom
a bangkok elite emerged and thanks in
great part to the chinese residents of
siam and the power of their
incredible merchant network the
kingdom's economy expanded
you see the main source of the
monarchy's wealth was the royal trade
monopoly
all the software and everything under
the hood that ran the monopoly was
written
produced and directed by the chinese
and most all of the trading junks plying
goods back and forth between
guangdong
all the red collar vessels were operated
by the dyochos
and the hawk yen their chunks were
painted green
and like it is anywhere i guess
certainly here in the u.s 1849
1850 with the california gold rush word
got back to the people in the home
villages about all the amazing
opportunities in far off siam and they
started
flooding out of china to all these
destinations that started popping up in
the 19th century
especially after europeans started
showing up in the numbers they did
and so many of these immigrants who took
that chance and came to the kingdom of
siam and
started a new life there they all
married siamese wives and
slowly blended into the siamese melting
pot
in one or two generations the ability to
speak their
ancestral language disappeared and among
the bangkok elites were many
mega wealthy chinese and they were
called
chaosua and these chaos they
enthusiastically embraced
thai culture and just as their ancestors
used to do beckon chow chow
back in the old country well they would
leverage their daughters in order to
climb up the social ladder
and they'd marry them into the most
gilded families in the kingdom
kings rama the sixth and seventh were
born from a chinese mother
the queen of rama the fifth who came
from one of these chao sua
families and married into the siamese
royal family
it was usually these chaos who were the
families who built the temples the
palaces
public works and acted in the capacity
as
compradors between the king of siam and
the qing
empire the monarchy
had many spectacular marriage alliances
between
chakri royals and these chaosua families
and again one of the distinguishing
characteristics of these chao
suo was that they didn't cling to their
traditional chinese ways
and they completely embraced the thai
language
culture and the lifestyle of their
adoptive homeland
today there are many of bangkok's
richest and most celebrated families who
can trace
their lineage back to these 19th century
chaos
in general but not exclusively in the
north in and around bangkok and of
course traveling east and
south down the peninsula on the gulf of
thailand's side
it was predominantly a doju speaking
area
but further down in the south around
songkla
and ranong this was hokkien territory
they weren't involved as much in the
outbound trade as much as
the domestic businesses especially the
big one this far
south in siam tin mining and collecting
birds nests
huge huge businesses the dojus ran
things up in bangkok and these
hokkien rajas as they were called or
chao mong
they ran things at the southern end of
siam kept things peaceful with their
malay neighbors to the south and as i
mentioned at the outset the na songkla
family
the descensence of how young or woo rang
they were one such chow mong family who
obtained royal favor in the form of
landed estates
honorific titles and access to
lucrative commercial activities and
these chao mong families
like the na song claw walked a tightrope
from
king to king or frockland to fracklon
when the time came to pull through for
the monarchy
how fast you responded and the quality
of your response
meant everything and even though they
were toxin people who owed their
family's position
to the personal relationship between
toxin and wu rung
when rama the first tested their
allegiance to him
the nassau family showed their loyalty
to the chakri dynasty
and this lasted as i said for eight
generations
today the home of the na sonclaw family
is the songkla national museum i haven't
been there but looks very beautiful and
stately
we'll look at another one of these
hokkien rajas these wealthy and
respected hokkien families
ran their provinces like a warlord but
time and again
demonstrated loyalty to the crown and
did plenty of good deeds along the way
too
so rama the third he got to be the one
on duty
when britain was at the height of its
power and the east india company
though not the terror they had once been
were still around and
commanding respect well till the company
was disestablished in 1858
but in the 1830s and 1840s when the
british came to your port
and started honking all over the place
and making all kinds of demands
you had to shut up and listen as the dao
guang emperor found out the hard way
rama iii reigned during the same window
of time
as his unfortunate fellow royal over in
beijing who unbeknownst to him
had just ushered in china's century of
humiliation
so it was that time now we're all
familiar with it and all the events that
served as the
earliest stepping stones leading to the
ultimate establishment of the prc in
the dalguang emperor had to deal with
the british and so did
king rama iii in 1824 britain had
declared war on burma this was the first
anglo-burma war the first of three
just like with china the burmese were no
match for british warships and weaponry
their army was wiped out they ended up
having to sign a piece that made
the treaty of nanjing look stingy and
when burma was still down
but not quite out britain came back at
them two more times
in 1852 and 1885
in the end declaring an end to the
konbong dynasty
founded by aolong puya who we mentioned
last episode
and then burma suffered the ignominy of
getting themselves annexed to the
british empire
hey the british didn't like what the
french were doing over in vietnam laos
and cambodia
they needed to have their own piece of
southeast asia too to
counter their rivals so king rama iii
saw how quickly and dreadfully his
historical enemy to the west
burma had fallen so he knew there was no
way to defend against that
he couldn't stop the british from making
all their demands but
he could delay the inevitable which is
essentially what he did
he signed the bernie treaty in june 1826
but by the time the british
ever got to see all those prophets quite
a bit
of time had passed since the promises
were made
there was really only one thing that the
british wanted in siam
an end to the royal trade monopoly and
free trade rights
in other words they were demanding a
piece of the monarchy's primary income
source that they used
not only for the country's benefit and
to support the royal house
but to fund their military and defense
of the nation
so this was no small thing the british
were asking for
they saw all that wealth in bangkok and
knew this place was ripe for
exploitation it would be a
ready market for their indian
manufacturers to offset
this impending crushing loss of tax
revenue
the monarchy developed an old
tried-and-true scheme that ended up
generating a lot of money
it covered all the trade losses conceded
to the british
this involved the art of tax farming
so the days of wine and roses were
coming to a crossroads
peacefully or not peacefully the british
were going to get free trade access to
all the major ports of siam
and all those years of having the
monopoly and dealing in certain high
volume
high profit margin commodities well the
monarchy
had to share it with others and the king
went
right to these chaos of bangkok and
granted them these concessions
throughout the kingdom
to collect taxes on things like salt and
a few dozen other valuable
commodities and this system worked out
great yeah nothing like tax farming
the king levied the taxes and the tax
farmers were the enforcers
who made sure everybody ponied up it was
a great system
except for the one paying the taxes and
next episode we are going to continue on
with the reigns of kings rama the third
and fourth over in china it's the qing
dynasty's four
bad luck emperors
in all of siam there were something like
000 ethnic chinese 1822.
we'll see that number almost triple
over the next quarter century so do
please consider coming back next time
the closer we get to the 20th century
some of this history might start to
sound more familiar
all the terms links and whatnot are all
meticulously written out for you at the
website at tcup.media
read along learn a few new chinese words
and if you'd like to donate
to this humble cause with so many great
aspirations
you can donate via paypal or join my
elite
patreon community all that info can be
found at the website
at tcup dot media did i say that already
that's all i got for you now miss amigos
amigos this
is lazla montgomery signing off from los
angeles california
recommending you come back next time for
what's shaping up to
possibly be another exciting episode of
the china history podcast